ABSTRACT  Introduction The purpose of this article is to analyze the Andean Community in the context of the 21st century Latin American regionalism. After introducing the Andean Community (AC) in a conjuncture defined by the development of a Post-Hegemonic regionalism, the study aims to present and discuss the current institutional and political situation of the Andean integration.  Methods In this research, we have sought to apply a theoretical and bibliographical analysis as well as to collect qualitative and quantitative primary data about the topic. The authors conducted interviews with members of the Andean Parliament, settled in Bogotá (CO), in order to complement the reflections of this study. Some of those were semi-structured interviews with the President and the Vice-President of this parliamentary body. It was also analyzed statistical data from the Latinobarometer with the aim to strengthen the arguments presented in this article. Due to the gathering of these data, it was possible to respond questions related to the fragilities and deficiencies of the AC.  Results The article concludes that the Andean project is currently seen in a context of unawareness, discredit and lack of legitimacy, reflecting the social perception regarding Andean integration. This study also argues that the ideological polarization of Andean member-states has affected the disruption of this process, due to the prioritization of other perspectives of regional insertion, Bolivarian &#8211; the Bolivarian alliance for the Americas &#8211; or liberal &#8211; the Pacific Alliance.  Discussion Results have indicated that the AC is suffering from a disintegration process. However, the development of regional commercial standards, a complex communitarian justice system and the constitution of a directly elected parliament are Andean achievements which should not be extinguished, as represents a significant progress to the integration of Andean states and society. In this sense, this study presents an innovative and current analysis of the Andean integration, through discussing how recent integration projects at stake (ALBA and Pacific Alliance) have increased the challenges faced by the Andean Community.