This article aims to develop an analysis of the problem of unemployment and how the employment and income support programs emerge on the public agenda as mechanisms of the state institution to answer that question. This objective is part of a larger question, which attempts to relate the dynamics of social assistance policies, with building forms of citizenship and subjectivity in the relationship between state and civil society in Argentina. We Analyze whether they contribute to overcoming poverty, or constitute individual social reproduction strategies, establishing as a mechanism of social control of the population. The analysis is the result of the first systematization, bibliographic surveys and conceptual constructions in the context of a doctoral research. The hypothesis was proven from the analysis of different literature sources in dialogue with the theoretical framework. Analyzing the design, management and administration, and the context in which public policy measures are inserted, the dynamics of the distribution and allocation of social assistance funds, we intent to shed light on the changes in the form of exercise of power. We mention that the distribution of social assistance in the form of employment schemes and income support, not only figures on the public agenda as a means of resolving the issue of unemployment, but that programs and social plans are incorporated into state policy, also as mechanisms through which one tries to solve other problems that affect governance and the reproduction of capitalist social order. Another change observed refers to the distribution following clientelism criteria that allows a strengthening of grassroots groups mobilized and the institutionalization of mechanisms for negotiation-protest. The policy is part of the mechanisms of construction of hegemony in the systems of domination and the neoliberal model established a change in the meaning given to citizens.The link between the problem of unemployment and the response forms by the state apparatus of the posconvertibilidad in Argentina represents a topic of relevance to the sociology of work and public policy. The proposed scenarios presented provide arguments to the current debate between the continuities and ruptures of the different models of social policy designed over the last few years as different forms of problematization of the impact of social issues on the government agenda.