Abstract This paper sets out to examine the institutional effects of the completion of 2014 World Cup and 2016 Olympics in Brazil. It consists of analysing the legal and institutional changes taken in order to attend the demands of the international sports organizations which control the elite sports and their respective events and, therefore, identifying the eventual impacts on the institutions of the host-country. To do so, we focus on the legal changes accomplished by Brazilian federal government to fulfil the financial, political and legal guarantees presented by both Bid Committees to the Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and the International Olympic Committee (IOC). We carried out a documental research, emphasizing the legal rules regarding to this topic, among which it is worth mentioning the Olympic Act, the General Law of World Cup, the Differential Procurement Regime, comparing them with the prior legal framework. Then, based on sociological institutionalism and the analytical typology proposed by Edelman &amp; Suchman (1997) on the legal environment of organizations, we examined their institutional effects. To do so, we executed two analytical tasks: a) an examination of the influence of organizations - sporting and political - on the legislative process; b) a discussion of how, and to what extent, those legislative changes affect organizations, highlighting the constitutive dimension of the legal environment. Regarding the former, we identified institutional effects on the regulatory facet of the legal environment. It was a normative influence in the enactment of the Olympic Act and the General Law of World Cup, and a cognitive one in the enactment of the law that created the Differential Procurement Regime. With respect to the latter, it was not possible to identify institutional effects on the discourses, practices and procedures of the organizations involved in the reception of mega-events, since the effects on the constitutive facet of legal environment do not appear immediately. Therefore, it suggessed a demand for a research agenda on this topic. The result of our research contributes to the literature since it adds a new methodological approach &#8211; while academic studies commonly use an a posteriori approach, we used the notion of pre-event legacies &#8211; and a new analytical category, since it purposes the investigation of a type of legacy still unexplored by previous researches. Furthermore, it suggests the essablishment of a research agenda on this theme, which drives to the development of the literature on sports mega-events legacies.